hello guys just a quick shout out to
engineered labs today's sponsor they
make these really cool acrylic periodic
tables and they even have element 115
well not really but they have all known
radioactive ones check them out link in
the description trouble is to the
nearest stars in this century as
possible but only if we managed to
achieve one of two things a proportion
system that is able to burn for long
periods of time at a minimum
acceleration of 1g or some sort of warp
drive just to put this into perspective
if we had a ship like in the expence
universe we could reach speeds in the
millions of kilometers per hour think
about this at a 1g of constant
acceleration and burning for about
nineteen point two hours we could reach
Mars at its closest distance to earth or
55 million eight hundred thousand
kilometers in just thirty 2.5 hours
compared to the current time which is in
between six to eight months that's a
huge gain just to show you how much this
really matters the same acceleration
would grant us a trip to Pluto in just
seventy three point seven days it took
the new Horizons probe nine point five
years to get there so Rockets will help
us a lot with the exploration of our own
solar system and it is a topic that I
will be exploring in later videos but
what about other stars like Proxima
Centauri which is 4.2 light years away
well to reach Proxima Centauri at 40
point 14 trillion kilometers away it
would take about six hundred eighty
three thousand four hundred sixty five
days or 1,873 years to be exact but then
again taking to account all other
problems related to traveling this far
let's face it it's just not viable the
Alcubierre warp field would help us
surpass the speed of light many times
which means that if we had a ship that
could go 10 times the speed of light
it would take only 153 days to get to
Proxima Centauri much more reasonable of
it
but building a warp drive is not an easy
task hello everyone
subject zero here Miguel Alcubierre is a
theoretical physicist famous for the
warp field theory in May 1994 he
published a paper titled the warp drive
hyper fast travel within general
relativity however his goal of this
paper contrary to popular belief had
little to do with warp drives it was to
show that a distortion of space-time is
indeed possible within the realms of
general relativity and therefore we
could travel faster than the speed of
light his objective was simple he wanted
to verify if there was a way to deform
space in such a manner that its
contraction and expansion would provide
movement to a body inside the space-time
warp bubble the idea was to form a
bubble around the ship and at the same
time the inside of the bubble would
remain untouched or flat as they say we
all know that huge masses can warp space
so the idea came from two factors the
ability for space to contract like what
happens with large concentrations of
matter and expand which is what is
happening with the universe the only
problem with his idea is that the
transition from contraction to expansion
requires a massive amount of energy
mainly focus on what they call exotic
matter with negative mass as complex as
it may appear to be in this case since
normal matter warp space inwards is why
we have gravity negative mass would warp
space outwards this is the key of his
warp field theory to better visualize
this think of it as the path of the ship
inside a tube in order for the warp
field to work it would contract the
front of the tube towards the ship
bringing some distant point of
space-time closer to it and as it
approaches the center it slowly
transitions to an expansion behind it so
space-time moves around the ship and
inside the bubble nothing is moving or
space-time remains flat since there is
no known limit to how space-time can
contract or expand in theory anything
inside the bubble can travel faster than
the speed of light all you need to do is
increase the warp field
about ten years later NASA picked up on
this project and dr. Harold white from
Eagle Works stepped in to verify if the
amount of energy necessary for the work
field to work could be brought down to
something more realistic his great
insight was to oscillate in between
states or from contraction to expansion
by using a thoris around the ship he
derived his calculation from the
Alcubierre metric and described three
main functions the warp bubble shaping
function york time which is the measure
of expansion and contraction of space
and energy density this is when we get
this chart what he proposed was that to
decrease the mass necessary to make this
work and have your ship traveling at 10
times the speed of light you could in
turn increase the oscillation of the
torus using the york time function but
that comes at a cost with a mass
equivalence of Jupiter you would have
the optimal work bubble conformation
that would enable a ship to be located
inside the bubble without any distortion
or any harm to the ship as you increase
the oscillation you diminish the total
exotic mass requirements up to a point
where all you need is about 700
kilograms of exotic matter but the
bubble would be so thick pretty much
destroying anything inside the bubble
that is when the second torus is
introduced with two oscillating Tauri
the thickness of the warp bubble can be
controlled allowing for flat space to
exist inside the bubble keeping
everything intact even if we managed to
make that ship we still have to deal
with other external factors like for
instance all the trap energy in front of
the bubble anything that is on the way
of the ship route would get stuck in
front of the bubble so when you stop the
ship the energy would be released
forward with high intensity so one thing
to avoid at all time would be to point
your ship at the planet or whenever you
arrive you'll pretty much destroy the
planet
then again this is getting more and more
complex by the minute and in the same
fashion as a queer all dr. white
attempted to do here was to bring the
war field theory to of the realm of
maybe plausible and that is exactly what
he achieved one thing almost all
scientists discussing this topic agree
is that warping space is possible or at
least the numbers tells us that is
possible nevertheless what is most
likely to happen is work field achieving
subliminal speeds like 10% of the speed
of light that is by far the most
plausible scenario for the next 80 years
and 10% of the speed of light is a big
deal
after all to achieve the same speed
using rocket technology you would have
to burn at 1g of constant acceleration
for 35 days think about that what could
change everything though is antimatter
there is something about antimatter that
we don't know and most likely it will
take years for us to acquire a
definitive answer for it that is how
does it react with gravity is it
repelled or is it attracted by it like
anything else or better yet what kind of
gravitational field would large
quantities produce the thing is we
really don't know but tests at the CERN
facility with G bar experiments will
give us some clues this decade how
antimatter behaves with gravity is still
a mystery and so far no experimental
direct measure has ever been
successfully performed the goal of G bar
is to test the Einstein weak equivalence
principle which states that the
trajectory of a test particle is
independent of its composition and
internal structure when it is only
submitted to gravitational forces this
fundamental principle has never been
directly tested with antimatter G bar
will directly measure the freefall
acceleration note a G of neutral anti
hydrogen atoms in the terrestrial
gravitational field then again it will
take years for us to gather enough
quantities anyway whatever they will be
able to produce this year although
helpful will most likely be inconclusive
in many aspects but remember what we are
looking for is a concentration of mass
that will allow us to expend space but
if the experiment is successful and
antimatter turns out to be repelled by
gravity aside from revolutionising
everything it could in theory be used as
the exotic matter that al Kabeer
described or at least open the door to a
completely new field of physics alright
folks that's it we're done here
[Music]
Oh